---
inFeed: true
hasPage: false
inNav: false
isBasedOnUrl: 'https://youtu.be/W-_E_hPhPgc'
inLanguage: null
starred: false
keywords: []
description: ''
datePublished: '2016-02-29T18:55:32.641Z'
dateModified: '2016-02-29T18:54:43.523Z'
title: ''
author: []
authors: []
publisher:
  name: null
  domain: null
  url: null
  favicon: null
sourcePath: _posts/2016-02-29-25011c7d-6aa7-4749-aa8b-195c3f7cd94e.md
published: true
_context: 'http://schema.org'
_type: MediaObject

---
Reasons to Rejoice

<iframe src="https://cdn.embedly.com/widgets/media.html?src=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.youtube.com%2Fembed%2FW-_E_hPhPgc%3Ffeature%3Doembed&amp;url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.youtube.com%2Fwatch%3Fv%3DW-_E_hPhPgc%26feature%3Dyoutu.be&amp;image=https%3A%2F%2Fi.ytimg.com%2Fvi%2FW-_E_hPhPgc%2Fhqdefault.jpg&amp;key=b7d04c9b404c499eba89ee7072e1c4f7&amp;type=text%2Fhtml&amp;schema=youtube" width="640" height="480" scrolling="no" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen="allowfullscreen" style=""></iframe>

MATTHEW HENRY'S COMMENTARY -- VERSES 6--9
Resources » 

Matthew Henry's Commentary » 1 Peter » Chapter 1 » Verses 6--9
Verses 6--9
The first word, wherein, refers to the apostle's foregoing discourse about the excellency of their present state, and their grand expectations for the future. "In this condition you greatly rejoice, though now for a season, or a little while, if need be, you are made sorrowful through manifold temptations," 1 Pet. 1:6\.
I. The apostle grants they were in great affliction, and propounds several things in mitigation of their sorrows. 1\. Every sound Christian has always something wherein he may greatly rejoice. Great rejoicing contains more than an inward placid serenity of mind or sensation of comfort; it will show itself in the countenance and conduct, but especially in praise and gratitude. 2\. The chief joy of a good Christian arises from things spiritual and heavenly, from his relation to God and to heaven. In these every sound Christian greatly rejoices; his joy arises from his treasure, which consists of matters of great value, and the title to them is sure. 3\. The best Christians, those who have reason greatly to rejoice, may yet be in great heaviness through manifold temptations. All sorts of adversities are temptations, or trials of faith, patience, and constancy. These seldom go singly, but are manifold, and come from different quarters, the effect of all which is great heaviness. As men, we are subject to sorrows, personal and domestic. As Christians, our duty to God obliges us to frequent sorrow: and our compassion towards the miserable, the dishonour done to God, the calamities of his church, and the destruction of mankind, from their own folly and from divine vengeance, raise, in a generous and pious mind, almost continual sorrow. I have great heaviness and continual sorrow in my heart, Rom. 9:2\. 4\. The afflictions and sorrows of good people are but for a little while, they are but for a season; though they may be smart, they are but short. Life itself is but for a little while, and the sorrows of it cannot survive it; the shortness of any affliction does much abate the heaviness of it. 5\. Great heaviness is often necessary to a Christian's good: If need be, you are in heaviness. God does not afflict his people willingly, but acts with judgment, in proportion to our needs. There is a conveniency and fitness, nay, an absolute necessity in the case, for so the expression signifies: it must be; therefore no man should be moved by these afflictions. For yourselves know that we are appointed thereunto, 1 Thess. 3:3\. These troubles, that lie heavy, never come upon us but when we have need, and never stay any longer than needs must.